# Research-on-Influential-Factors-Analysis-and-Sales-Forecast-of-Live-Broadcasting-Marketing-
Beijing-level Undergraduate Research Fund 
Cooperate with Peipei Luo and Mingyang Wang
In recent years, live broadcasting marketing has developed rapidly and occupied an important position in Chinese online shopping transactions. However, domestic research lacks quantitative analysis and prediction research on the influencing factors of transaction volume. Based on live data, this paper uses stepwise regression, factor analysis and LASSO regression to select the core influencing factors of live broadcasting marketing as live viewing times, live delivery ability and commodity characteristics. In terms of sales forecast, the regression model, the regression model based on multi-factor dimensionality reduction prediction model, the decision tree model and the random forest model are selected. And the five-fold cross-validation method is used to evaluate the optimal model. The MAPE value of the test set shows that the random forest model works best among the four prediction models. Compared with the previous research on live broadcasting marketing, this paper quantitatively analyzes the influencing factors, and uses a variety of models to predict sales, which improves the accuracy. The conclusions are of positive significance to encourage anchors to innovate live broadcast content, and promote rational consumption. Also,the prediction results provide reference information for sales platform and product suppliers. 
